old friend and host mr benezei
was removed to germantown my answer was
you know my house if you can make shift
with its scanty accommodations you will
be most heartily welcome
he replied that if i made the kind offer
for christ's sake
i should not miss of a reward and i
returned
don't let me be mistaken it was not for
christ's sakes
but for your sake one of our common
acquaintances
to cautiously remark that knowing it to
be the custom of the saints
when they receive any favor to shift the
burden
of the obligation from off their
shoulders
and place it in heaven i was contrived
to fix it on earth
the last time i saw mr whitfield was in
london when he consulted me about his
orphan house concern
and his purpose of appropriating to the
establishment of a college
he had a loud and clear voice and
articulated his words and sentences so
perfectly
that he might be heard and understood at
a great distance
especially as his auditors however
numerous
observed the most exact silence he
preached one evening from the top of the
courthouse steps
which are in the middle of market street
and on the west side of 2nd street
which crosses it at right angles both
streets were filled with his hearers
to a considerable distance being amongst
the hindmost in market street i had the
curiosity
to learn how far he could be heard by
retiring backwards down the street
towards the river
and i found his voice distinct until i
came near front street
where some noise in that street obscured
it imagining
then a semi-circle of which my distance
would be the radius and that it were
filled with auditors
to each of whom i allowed two square
feet i computed that he might well be
heard by more
than thirty thousand thus reconciled me
to the newspaper accounts of his having
preached
to twenty five thousand people in the
fields and
to the ancient histories of generals
haranguing whole armies
of which i had sometimes doubted by
hearing him often i came to distinguish
easily
between sermons newly composed and those
which he had often preached
in the course of his travels his
delivery of the latter was so improved
by frequent repetitions
that every accent every emphasis every
modulation of voice
was so perfectly well turned and well
placed that
without being interested in the subject
one could not help
being pleased with the discourse a
pleasure of
much the same kind with that received
from an
excellent piece of music this is an
advantage
itinerant preachers have over those who
are stationary
as the latter cannot well improve their
delivery of a sermon
by so many rehearsals his writing and
printing from time to time
gave great advantage to his enemies
unguarded expressions and even erroneous
opinions
delivered in preaching might have been
afterward explained or qualified
by supposing others that might have
accompanied them
or they might have been denied but
a script dominate critics attacked his
writing
violently and with so much appearance of
reasonis to diminish the number of his
voteries and prevent their increase
so that i am of opinion if he had
never written anything he would have
left behind him a much more numerous
and important sect and his reputation
might in that case
have been still growing even after his
death as there being nothing of his
writing on which to found
a censure and give him a lower character
his proselytes would be left at liberty
to feign for him
as greater variety of excellence as
their enthusiastic
admiration might wish him to have
possessed
my business was now continually
augmenting
and my circumstances growing daily
easier
my newspaper having become very
profitable as being for a time almost
the only one
in this and the neighboring provinces i
experienced
two the truth of the observation that
after getting the first hundred pound
it is more easy to get the second money
itself being of a profitable nature the
partnership at carolina having succeeded
i was encouraged to engage in others and
to promote several of my workmen
who had behaved well by establishing
them with printing houses
in different colonies on the same terms
with that in carolina
most of them did well being enabled at
the end of our term
six years to purchase the types of me
and go on working for themselves by
which meant
several families were raised
partnerships often finishing quarrel
but i was happy in this that mine were
all carried on and ended amicably
owing i think a good deal to the
precaution of having
very explicitly settled in our articles
everything to be done by or expected
from each partner
so that there was nothing to dispute
which precaution i would therefore
recommend to all who enter into
partnerships
for whatever esteem partners may have
for
and confidence in each other at the time
of the contract little jealousies and
disgusts may arise with ideas of
inequality in the care and burden of the
business
etc which are attended often with breach
of friendship
and of connection perhaps with lawsuits
and other disagreeable consequences
end of chapter 11
the autobiography of benjamin franklin
chapter 11.
this is a librivox recording all
librivox recordings are in the public
domain
for more information or to volunteer
please visit librivox.org
the autobiography of benjamin franklin
edited by frank
woodworth pine chapter 12
defense of the province
i had on the whole abundant reason to be
satisfied with my being established in
pennsylvania
there were however two things that i
regretted there being no provision for
defense
nor for a complete education of youth no
militia
or any college i therefore in 1743
drew up a proposal for establishing an
academy
and at that time thinking the reverend
mr peters
who was out of employ a fit person to
superintend such an institution
i communicated the project to him but he
having more profitable views in the
service of the proprietaries
which succeeded declined the undertaking
and not knowing another at that time
suitable for such a trust
i let the scheme lie a while dormant
i succeeded better the next year 1744
in proposing and establishing a
philosophical society
the paper i wrote for that purpose will
be found among my writings when
collected
with respect to defense spain having
been several years at war against great
britain
and being at length joined by france
which
brought to us great danger and the
labored and long continued endeavor of
our governor
thomas to prevail with our quicker
assembly
to pass a militia law and make other
provisions for the security of the
province
having proved abortive i determined to
try what might be done by a voluntary
association of people to promote this
i first wrote and published a pamphlet
entitled plain truth
in which i stated our defenseless
situation in strong lights
with the necessity of union and
discipline
for our defense and promised to propose
in a few days an association to be
generally signed
for that purpose the pamphlet had a
sudden and surprising effect
i was called upon for the instrument of
association
and having settled the draft of it with
a few friends i appointed a meeting of
the citizens
in the large building before mentioned
the house was pretty full
i had prepared a number of printed
copies and provided pins and ink
dispersed all over the room i harangued
them a little on the subject
read the paper and explained it and then
distributed the copies
which were equally signed not the least
objection being made
when the company separated and the
papers were collected
we found about twelve hundred hands and
other copies being
dispersed in the country the subscribers
amounted at length to upwards of ten
thousand
these all furnished themselves as soon
as they could with arms
formed themselves into companies and
regiments chose their officers
and met every week to be instructed in
the manual exercise
and other parts of military discipline
the women by subscription
among themselves provided silk colors
which they presented to the companies
painted with different devices and
mottos
which i supplied the officers of the
companies composing the philadelphia
regiment
being met chose me for their colonel but
conceiving myself unfit
i declined that station and recommended
mr lawrence
a fine person and a man of influence who
was accordingly appointed
i then proposed a lottery to defray the
expense
of building a battery below the town and
furnishing it with canon
it filled expeditiously and the battery
was soon erected
with merlin's being framed of logs and
filled with earth
we bought some old canon from boston but
these not being sufficient we wrote to
england for more
soliciting at the same time our
proprietaries
for the assistance though without much
expectation
of obtaining it meanwhile colonel
lawrence
william allen alan taylor esquire and
myself were sent to new york by the
associators
commissioned to borrow some canon of
governor clinton he first
refused us preemptorially but at dinner
with his council
where there was great drinking of
madeira wine
as the custom of that place then was
he softened by degrees and said he would
lend us six
after a few more bumpers he advanced to
10 and at length he very good-naturedly
conceded 18.
they were fine cannon 18 pounders with
their carriages
which were soon transported and mounted
on our battery
where the associators kept a nightly
guard while the war lasted
and among the rest i regularly took my
turn of duty there
as a common soldier my activity
in these operations was agreeable to the
governor and council
they took me into confidence and i was
consulted by them
in every measure wherein their
concurrence was thought useful
to the association calling in the aid of
religion
i propose to them the proclaiming a fast
to promote
reformation and implore the blessing of
heaven on our undertaking
they embraced the motion but as it was
the first
fast ever thought of in the province the
secretary had no precedent from which to
draw the proclamation
my education in new england where a fast
is proclaimed every year
was here of some advantage i drew it
in the accustomed style it was
translated into german
printed in both languages and divulged
through the province
this gave the clergy of the different
sects an opportunity of
influencing their congregation to join
in the association
and it would probably have been general
among all but quakers
if the peace had not soon intervened
begin footnote william penn's agents
sought recruits
for the colony of pennsylvania in the
low countries of germany
and there are still in eastern
pennsylvania many germans
inaccurately called pennsylvania dutch
many of them use a germanized english
end of footnote
it was thought by some of my friends
that by my activity in these affairs
i should offend that sect and thereby
lose my interest in the assembly of the
province
where they formed a great majority a
young gentleman who had likewise some
friends in the house
and wished to succeed me as their clerk
acquainted me that
it was decided to displace me at the
next election
and he therefore in good will advised me
to resign
as more consistent with my honor than
being turned out
my answer to him was that i had read or
heard
of some public man who had made it a
rule
never to ask for an office and never to
refuse one when offered to him
i approve says i of his rule and will
practice it
with a small addition i shall never ask
never refuse nor ever resign
in office if they will have my office of
clerk to dispose of to another
they shall take it from me i will not by
giving it
up lose my right of some time or other
making reprisals on my adversaries i
heard however no more of this
i was chosen again unanimously as usual
at the next election
possibly as they disliked my late
intimacy
with the members of council who had
joined the governors in all the disputes
about military preparations with which
the house had long been harassed
they might have been pleased if i would
voluntarily have left them
but they did not care to displace me on
account merely of my zeal for
the association and they could not well
give another reason
indeed i had some cause to believe that
the defense of the country was not
disagreeable to any of them
provided they were not required to
assist in it
and i found that a much greater number
of them than i could
have imagined though against offensive
war
were clearly for the defensive my
pamphlets
pro and con were published on the
subject
and some by good quakers in favor of
defense
which i believe convinced most of their
younger people
a transaction in our fire company gave
me some insight
into their prevailing sentiments it had
been supposed that we should encourage
the scheme
for building a battery by laying out the
present stock
then about 60 pounds in tickets of the
lottery
by our rules no money could be disposed
of till the next meeting after the
proposal
the company consisted of 30 members of
which
22 were quakers and eight only of other
persuasions
we ate punctually attended the meetings
but though we thought
that some of the quakers would join us
we were by no means sure of a majority
only one quaker mr james morris appeared
to oppose the measure
he expressed much sorrow that it had
ever been proposed
as he said friends were all against it
and it would create such discord as
might break up the company
we told him that we saw no reason for
that we were the minority and if friends
were against the measure and outvoted us
we must
and should agreeably to the usage of all
societies
submit when the hour for business
arrived and was moved to put to the vote
he allowed we might then do it by the
rules but as he could assure us
that a number of members intended to be
present
for the purpose of opposing it it would
be but candid to allow a little time for
their appearing
while we were disputing this a waiter
came to tell me two gentlemen below
desired to speak with me i went down and
found they were two of our quicker
members
they told me there were eight of them
assembled
at a tavern just by and that they
were determined to come and vote with us
if there should be occasion
which they hoped would not be the case
and desired we should not call for their
assistance
if we could do without it as their
voting for such a measure
might embroil them with their elders and
friends
being thus secure of a majority i went
up and after a little
seeming hesitation agreed to a delay of
another hour
this mr morris allowed to be extremely
fair
not one of his opposing friends appeared
at which he expressed great surprise
and at the expiration of the hour we
carried the resolution eight to one
and as of the twenty-two quakers eight
were ready to vote with us
and 13 by their absence manifested that
they were not
inclined to oppose the measure i
afterward estimated the proportion of
quakers
sincerely against the defense as 1 to 21
only
for these were all regular members of
that society
and in good reputation among them and
had due notice
of what was proposed at that meeting the
honorable and learned
mr logan who had always been of that
sect
was one who wrote an address to them
declaring his approbation of defensive
war
and supporting his opinion by many
strong arguments
he put into my hand 60 pounds to be laid
out in lottery tickets
for the battery with directions to apply
what prize might be drawn
wholly to that service he told me the
following anecdote of his old master
william penn respecting defense
he came over from england when a young
man with that
proprietary and as his secretary
it was wartime and their ship was chased
by an armed vessel supposed to be an
enemy
their captain prepared for defense but
told william penn and his company of
quakers
that he did not expect their assistance
and they might retire
into the cabin which they did except
james logan
who chose to stay upon deck and was
quartered to a gun
the supposed enemy proved a friend and
there was no fighting
but when the secretary went down to
communicate the intelligence
william penn rebuked him severely for
staying upon deck
and undertaking to assist in defending
the vessel
contrary to the principles of friends
especially as it had not been required
by the captain
this reproof being before all the
company
piqued the secretary who answered i
being thy servant
why did thee not order me to come down
but thee was willing enough that i
should stay and help to fight the ship
when they thought there was danger
begin footnote james logan
1674-1750
came to america with william penn in
and was the business agent for the penn
family
he bequeathed his valuable library
preserved at his county seat
sent in to the city of philadelphia
into footnote by being many years in the
assembly the majority of which were
constantly quakers gave me frequent
opportunities of seeing the
embarrassment given them by
their principle against war whenever
application was made to them by order of
the crown
to grant aids for military purposes they
were unwilling to offend government on
the one hand
by a direct refusal and their friends
the body of the quakers on the other by
compliance contrary to their principles
hence a variety of evasions to avoid
complying
and modes of disguising the compliance
when it became
unavoidable the common mode at last was
to grant money under the phrase of its
being for the king's use
and never to inquire how it was applied
but if the demand was not directly from
the crown that phrase was found
not so proper and some other was to be
invented
as when powder was wanting i think it
was for the garrison at lewisburg
and the government of new england
solicited a grant of some
from pennsylvania which was much urged
on the house
by governor thomas they could not grant
money to buy powder
because that was an ingredient of war
but they voted an aide to new england
of three thousand pounds to be put into
the hands of the governor
and appropriated it for the purchase of
bread
flour wheat or other grain
some of the council desirous of giving
the house still further
embarrassment advise the governor not to
accept provision
as not being the thing he had demanded
but he replied
i shall take the money for i understand
very well their meaning
other grain is gunpowder which he
accordingly
bought and they never objected to it
it was an allusion to this fact that
when
in our fire company we feared the
success of our proposal
in favor of the lottery and i had said
to my friend mr singh
one of our members if we fail let us
move the purchase
of a fire engine with the money the
quakers can have no objection to that
and then if you nominate me and i you
as a committee for that purpose we will
buy a great gun
which is certainly a fire engine
i see says he you have improved by being
so long in the assembly
your equivocal project would be just a
match
for their wheat or other grain these
embarrassments that the quakers suffered
from having established and published it
as one of their principles
that no kind of war was lawful and which
being once published they could not
afterwards however they might
change their mind easily get rid of
reminds me of what i think a more
prudent conduct
in another sect among us that of the
dunkers
i was acquainted with one of its
founders michael welfare
soon after it appeared he complained to
me that they were grievously culminated
by the zealots of other persuasions and
charged with the abominable
principles and practices to which they
were utter strangers
i told him this had always been the case
with new sex
and that to put a stop to such abuse i
imagined
it might be well to publish the articles
of their belief
and the rules of their discipline he
said it had been
proposed among them but not agreed to
for this reason
when we were first drawn together as a
society he said
it had pleased god to enlighten our
minds so far
as to see some doctrines which we once
esteemed
truths were errors and that others which
we had esteemed errors
were real truths from time to time he
has been pleased to afford us further
light
and our principles have been improving
and our errors diminishing
now we are not sure that we are arrived
at the end of this progression
and at the perfection of spiritual or
theological knowledge
and we fear that if we should once print
our confession of faith
we should feel ourselves as if bound and
confirmed by it
and perhaps be unwilling to receive
further improvement
and our successors still more so as
conceiving what we
their elders and founders have done to
be something sacred
never to be departed from this modesty
in a sect
is perhaps a singular instance in the
history of mankind
every other sect supposing itself in
possession of all truth
and that those who differ are so far in
the wrong
like a man traveling in foggy weather
those at
some distance before him on the road he
sees
wrapped up in the fog as well as those
behind him
and also the people in the fields on
each side but near him all appears clear
though in truth he is as much in the fog
as any of them
to avoid this kind of embarrassment the
quakers have of late years been
gradually declining the public service
in the assembly
and in the magistrate choosing rather to
quit their power
than their principle in order of time i
should have mentioned before
that having in 1742
invented an open stove for the better
warming of rooms
and at the same time saving fuel as the
fresh air
admitted was warmed in entering i made a
present of the model to mr robert grace
one of my early friends who having an
iron furnace
found the casting of the plates for
these stoves a profitable thing
as they were growing in demand to
promote that demand i wrote and
published a pamphlet
entitled an account of the new invented
pennsylvania fireplaces
wherein their construction and manner of
operation
is particularly explained their
advantages above every other method of
warming rooms
demonstrated and all objections
that have been raised against the use of
them answered and
obviated etc this pamphlet had a good
effect
governor thomas was so pleased with the
construction of this stove
as described in it that he offered to
give me a patent for the sole vending of
them
for a term of years but i declined it
from a principle
which has ever weighed with me on such
occasions
fees that as we enjoy great advantages
from the inventions of others we should
be glad of an opportunity
to serve others by any invention of ours
and thus we should do freely and
generously
begin footnote the franklin stove is
still in use
warwick furnace chester county
pennsylvania
across the shishku river from putsdam
and footnote an iron monger in london
however assumed a good deal of my
pamphlet
and working it up into his own and
making some small changes in the machine
which rather hurt its operation cut a
patent for it there
and made as i was told a little fortune
by it
and this is not the only instance of
patents taken out
for my inventions by others though not
always with the same success
which i never contested as having no
desire of profiting by patents myself
and hating disputes the use of these
fireplaces
in very many houses both of this and
the neighboring colonies has been and is
a great saving of wood to the
inhabitants
end of chapter 12
the autobiography of benjamin franklin
chapter 13.
this is a librivox recording all
librivox recordings are in the public
domain
for more information or to volunteer
please visit librivox.org
the autobiography of benjamin franklin
edited by frank
woodworth pine chapter 13
public services and duties 1749-1753
peace being concluded and the
association business therefore
at an end i turned my thoughts again to
the affair of establishing
an academy the first step i took
was to associate in design of a number
of
active friends to whom the shinto
furnished a good part
the next was to write and publish a
pamphlet entitled
proposals relating to the education of
youth in pennsylvania
this i distributed among the principal
inhabitants gratis
and as soon as i could suppose their
minds a little prepared
by the perusal of it i set on foot a
subscription
for opening and supporting an academy
it was to be paid in quotas yearly for
five years by so dividing it
i judged the subscription might be
larger and i believe it was so
amounting to no less if i remember right
than five thousand pounds in the
introduction to these proposals
i stated their publication not as an act
of mine
but of some public-spirited gentleman
avoiding as much as i could
according to my usual rule that
presenting myself to the public
as the author of any scheme for their
benefit
the subscribers to carry the project
into immediate execution
chose out of their numbers 24 trustees
and appointed mr francis then attorney
general and myself to draw up
constitutions
for the government of the academy which
being done and signed
a house was hired masters engaged
and the schools opened i think in the
same year
1749 begin footnote
trench francis uncle of sir philip
francis
emigrated from england to maryland to
become attorney
for lord baltimore he removed to
philadelphia
and was attorney general of pennsylvania
from 1741
to 1755. he died in philadelphia
august 16 1758.
end footnote the scholars increasing
fast
the house was soon found too small and
we were looking out for a piece of
ground
properly situated with intention to
build when providence drew to our way
a large house already built which with a
few alterations
might well serve our purpose this was
the building before mentioned
erected by the hearers of mr whitfield
and was obtained for us
in the following manner it is to be
noted that the contributions to this
building being made by
people of different sects care was taken
in the nomination of trustees
in whom the building and ground was to
be vested
that a predominancy should not be given
to any sect
least in time that predominancy might be
a means of appropriating the whole
to the use of such sect contrary to the
original intention
it was therefore that one of each sect
was appointed fees one church of england
man
one presbyterian one baptist one
morovian
etc those in case of vacancy by death
were filled it by election from among
the contributors
the morovian happened not to please his
colleagues
and on his death they resolved to have
no other of that sect
the difficulty then was how to avoid
having two of
some other sect by means of the new
choice
several persons were named and for that
reason not agreed to
at length one mentioned me with the
observation that i was merely an honest
man
and have no sect at all which prevailed
with them
to choose me the enthusiasm which
existed when the house was built
had long since abated and its trustees
had not been able to procure fresh
contributions
for paying the ground rent and
discharging some of the other debts
the building had occasioned which
embarrassed them greatly
being now a member of both sets of
trustees that for the building
and that for the academy i had a good
opportunity of negotiating with both
and brought them finally to an agreement
by which the trustees for the building
were deceded to those of the academy the
latter undertaking
to discharge the debt to keep forever
open in the building a large hall
for occasional preachers according to
the original intention
and maintain a free school for the
instruction of poor children
writings were accordingly drawn and on
paying the debts the trustees of the
academy
were put in possession of the premises
and by dividing
the great and lofty hall into stories
and different rooms above and below
for the several schools and purchasing
some additional ground
the hole was soon made fit for our
purpose and the scholars removed
into the building the care and trouble
of agreeing with the workmen
purchasing materials and superintending
the work
fell upon me and i went through it
the more cheerfully as it did not then
interfere with my private business
having the year before taken a very able
industrious
and honest partner mr david hall
with whose character i was well
acquainted as he had worked for me
for years he took off my hands all care
of the printing office
paying me punctually my share of the
profits the partnership continued 18
years
successfully for us both the trustees of
the academy
after a while were incorporated by a
charter from the governor
their funds were increased by
contributions in britain
and grants of land from the
proprietaries to which the assembly
had since made considerable addition
and thus was established the present
university of philadelphia
i have been continued one of its
trustees from the beginning
now near 40 years and have had the very
great pleasure of seeing a number
of the youth who have received their
education in it
distinguished by their proven abilities
serviceable in public stations and
ornaments to their country
begin footnote the institution was later
called
the university of pennsylvania and
footnote when i disengaged myself
as above mentioned from private business
i flattered myself that
by the sufficient though moderate
fortune i had acquired
i had secure leisure during the rest of
my life
for philosophical studies and amusements
i purchased
all of dr spence's apparatus who had
come from england
to lecture here and i proceeded in my
electrical experiments with great
aliquity
but the public now considering me as a
man of leisure
laid hold of me for their purposes every
part of our
civil government and almost at the same
time
imposing some duty upon me the governor
put me
into the commission of the peace the
corporation of the city
chose me of the common council and soon
after an
alderman and the citizens at large chose
me
a burgess to represent them in assembly
this latter station was more agreeable
to me as i was at length tired
was sitting there to hear debates in
which as clerk i could take no part
and which were often so unentertaining
that i was induced to amuse myself with
making
magic squares or circles or anything to
avoid weariness
and i conceived my becoming a member
would enlarge my
power of doing good i would not however
insinuate that my ambition was not
flattered by all these promotions
it certainly was for considering my low
beginning
they were great things to me and they
were still more pleasing
as being so many spontaneous testimonies
of the public good opinion
and by me entirely unsolicited
the office of justice of the peace i
tried
a little by attending a few courts and
sitting on the bench to hear cases
but finding that more knowledge of the
common law than i possessed
was necessary to act in that station
with credit
i gradually withdrew from it excusing
myself by being obliged
to attend the higher duties of a
legislature in the assembly
my election to this trust was repeated
every year for 10 years
without my ever asking any elector for
his vote
or signifying either directly or
indirectly
any desire of being chosen on taking my
seat in the house
my son was appointed their clerk the
year following a treaty being held with
the indians at carlisle
the governor sent a message to the house
proposing that they should nominate some
of their members
to be joined with some members of
council
as commissioners for that purpose the
house
named the speaker mr norris and myself
and being commissioned we went to
carlisle and met the indians accordingly
as those people are extremely apt to get
drunk
and when so are very quarrelsome and
disorderly we strictly forbade the
selling
of any liquor to them and when they
complained of this restriction
we told them that if they would continue
sober during the treaty
we would give them plenty of rum when
business was over
they promised this and they kept their
promise
because they could get no liquor and the
treaty was concluded very orderly
and concluded to mutual satisfaction
they then claimed and received the rum
this was in the afternoon
they were near 100 men women and
children and were lodged
in temporary cabins built in the form of
a square
just without the town in the evening
hearing a great noise among them
the commissioners walked out to see what
was the matter
we found they had made a great bonfire
in the middle of the square
they were all drunk men and women
quarreling and fighting
their dark colored bodies half naked
seen only by the gloomy light of the
bonfire
running after and beating one another
with firebrands accompanied by their
horrid yellings
formed a scene the most resembling our
ideas
of hell that could well be imagined
there was no appeasing the tumult and we
retired to our lodging
at midnight a number of them came
thundering at our door
demanding more room of which we took no
notice
the next day sensible they had
misbehaved in giving us
that disturbance they sent three of
their old counselors to make their
apology
the order acknowledged the fault but
laid it upon the rum
and then endeavored to excuse the rum by
saying the great spirit who made all
things made everything for some use
and whatever use he designed anything
for
that use it should always be put to now
when he made rum
he said let this be for the indians to
get drunk with
and it must be so and indeed
if it be the design of providence to
extripate these savages
in order to make room for cultivators of
the earth
it seems not improbable that rum may be
the appointed means
it has already annihilated all the
tribes
who formerly inhabited the seacoast
in 1751 dr thomas bond
a particular friend of mine conceived
the idea of establishing a hospital in
philadelphia
a very beneficent design which has been
ascribed to me
but was originally his for the reception
and cure of poor sick persons
whether inhabitants of the province or
strangers he was zealous and active in
endeavoring to procure
subscriptions for it but the proposal
being a novelty in america
and at first not well understood he met
but with small success and lengthy came
to me with the complaint that he found
there was no such thing
as carrying a public spirited project
through without my being concerned in it
four says he i am often asked by those
to whom i propose subscribing
have you consulted franklin upon this
business and what does he think of it
and when i tell them that i have not
supposing it rather out of your line
they do not subscribe but say they will
consider of it
i inquire into the nature and probable
utility
of his scheme and received from him a
very satisfactory explanation
i not only subscribed to it myself but
engaged heartily in the design
of procuring subscriptions from others
previously however to the solicitation i
endeavored to prepare the minds of the
people
by writing on the subject in the
newspapers which was my usual custom in
such cases
but which he had omitted the
subscriptions afterward were more free
and generous
but beginning to flag i saw they would
be insufficient without some assistance
from the assembly
and therefore proposed a petition for it
which was done
the country members did not at first
relish the project
they objected that it could only be
serviceable to the city
and therefore the citizens alone should
be at the expense of it
and they doubted whether the citizens
themselves generally approved of it
my allegation on the contrary that it
met with such approbation
as to leave no doubt of our being able
to raise
2 000 pounds by voluntary donations they
considered
as a most extravagant supposition and
utterly impossible
on this i formed my plan and asked leave
to bring a bill for incorporating the
contributions
according to the prayer of their
petition and granting them
a blank sum of money which leave was
obtained
chiefly on the consideration that the
house would throw the bill out if they
did not like it
i drew it so as to make the important
clause
a conditioned one fees and be it enacted
by the authority of four said that when
the said contributions shall have met
and chosen their managers and treasurer
and shall have raised by their
contributions
a capital stock of blank value
the yearly interest of which is to be
applied to the accommodating of the sick
poor in the said hospital free of charge
for diet attendance advice and medicines
and shall make the same appear to the
satisfaction of the speaker
of the assembly for the time being
that then it shall and may be lawful
for the said speaker and he is hereby
required
to sign an order on the provincial
treasurer for the payment of two
thousand pounds
in two yearly payments to the treasurer
of the said hospital
to be applied to the founding building
and furnishing of the same the condition
carried the bill through
for the members who had opposed the
grant and now conceived they might have
the credit of being charitable
without the expense agreed to its
passage and then in soliciting
subscriptions among the people
we urge the conditional promise of the
law as additional motive to give
since every man's donation would be
doubled thus the clause worked both ways
the subscriptions soon exceeded their
requisite sum
and we claimed and received the public
gift which
enabled us to carry the design into
execution
a convenient and handsome building was
soon erected
the institution has by constant
experience been found
useful and flourishes to this day and i
do not remember
any of my political maneuvers the
success of which gave me at the time
more pleasure or wherein after thinking
of it
i more easily excused myself for having
made some use of cunning it was about
this time
that another projector the reverend
gilbert tennant
came to me with a request that i would
assist him in procuring
a subscription for erecting a new
meeting house
it was to be for use of a congregation
he had gathered among the presbyterians
who were originally disciples of mr
whitfield
unwilling to make myself disagreeable to
my fellow citizen
by too frequent soliciting their
contributions i
absolutely refused he then desired i
would furnish him with a list of names
of persons
i knew by experience to be generous and
public spirited
i thought it would be unbecoming in me
after their kind compliance with my
solicitations
to mark them out to be worried by other
beggars
and therefore refused also to give him
such a list
he then desired i would at least give
him my advice
that i will readily do said i and in the
first place i advise you to apply
to all those whom